# ECMAScript 简介

<details markdown="1">
  <summary>目录</summary>

- [ECMAScript 简介](#ecmascript-简介)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)

</details>


**ECMAScript 简介**

ES 的全称是 ECMAScript，它是由 ECMA 国际标准化组织 制定的一套**脚本语言的标准化规范**。

详细来说，ES 是由 ECMA 的第 39 号技术专家委员会（Technical Committee 39，简称 TC39）负责制订 ECMAScript 标准，成员包括 Microsoft、Mozilla、Google 等公司。

PS：简单来说，ECMAScript 是 JS 的语言标准。当然，ECMAScript 还包括其他脚本语言的语言标准。

**ECMAScript 版本发布记录**

1995 年：ECMAScript 诞生。
1997 年：ECMAScript 标准确立。ECMA 发布 ECMA-262 标准，推出浏览器标准语言 ECMAScript 1.0。
1999 年：发布 ES3；与此同时，IE5 风靡一时。
2009 年：发布 ECMAScript 5.0（简称 ES5）。例如 foreach、Object.keys、Object.create 和 json 标准。
2011 年：发布 ECMAScript5.1，成为 ISO 国际标准，从而推动所有浏览器都支持。

2015 年 6 月：发布 ECMAScript 6（简称 ES6），即 ECMAScript 2015。
（注意，**前者是按版本号区分，后者是按年份区分**。ES 的后续的版本，请尽量用**年份**来命名。）
2016 年 6 月：发布 ECMAScript 7，即 ECMAScript 2016。

此后，每年更新一版。

> ECMA 的最新资讯: [ECMA news](https://www.ecma-international.org/news/)
> github:[https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/releases](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/releases/)

## Introduction

This Ecma Standard defines the ECMAScript 2024 Language. It is the fifteenth edition of the ECMAScript Language Specification. Since publication of the first edition in 1997, ECMAScript has grown to be one of the world's most widely used general-purpose programming languages. It is best known as the language embedded in web browsers but has also been widely adopted for server and embedded applications.

ECMAScript is based on several originating technologies, the most well-known being JavaScript (Netscape) and JScript (Microsoft). The language was invented by Brendan Eich at Netscape and first appeared in that company's Navigator 2.0 browser. It has appeared in all subsequent browsers from Netscape and in all browsers from Microsoft starting with Internet Explorer 3.0.

The development of the ECMAScript Language Specification started in November 1996. The first edition of this Ecma Standard was adopted by the Ecma General Assembly of June 1997.

That Ecma Standard was submitted to ISO/IEC JTC 1 for adoption under the fast-track procedure, and approved as international standard ISO/IEC 16262, in April 1998. The Ecma General Assembly of June 1998 approved the second edition of ECMA-262 to keep it fully aligned with ISO/IEC 16262. Changes between the first and the second edition are editorial in nature.

The third edition of the Standard introduced powerful regular expressions, better string handling, new control statements, try/catch exception handling, tighter definition of errors, formatting for numeric output and minor changes in anticipation of future language growth. The third edition of the ECMAScript standard was adopted by the Ecma General Assembly of December 1999 and published as ISO/IEC 16262:2002 in June 2002.

After publication of the third edition, ECMAScript achieved massive adoption in conjunction with the World Wide Web where it has become the programming language that is supported by essentially all web browsers. Significant work was done to develop a fourth edition of ECMAScript. However, that work was not completed and not published as the fourth edition of ECMAScript but some of it was incorporated into the development of the sixth edition.

The fifth edition of ECMAScript (published as ECMA-262 5th edition) codified de facto interpretations of the language specification that have become common among browser implementations and added support for new features that had emerged since the publication of the third edition. Such features include accessor properties, reflective creation and inspection of objects, program control of property attributes, additional array manipulation functions, support for the JSON object encoding format, and a strict mode that provides enhanced error checking and program security. The fifth edition was adopted by the Ecma General Assembly of December 2009.

The fifth edition was submitted to ISO/IEC JTC 1 for adoption under the fast-track procedure, and approved as international standard ISO/IEC 16262:2011. Edition 5.1 of the ECMAScript Standard incorporated minor corrections and is the same text as ISO/IEC 16262:2011. The 5.1 Edition was adopted by the Ecma General Assembly of June 2011.

Focused development of the sixth edition started in 2009, as the fifth edition was being prepared for publication. However, this was preceded by significant experimentation and language enhancement design efforts dating to the publication of the third edition in 1999. In a very real sense, the completion of the sixth edition is the culmination of a fifteen year effort. The goals for this edition included providing better support for large applications, library creation, and for use of ECMAScript as a compilation target for other languages. Some of its major enhancements included modules, class declarations, lexical block scoping, iterators and generators, promises for asynchronous programming, destructuring patterns, and proper tail calls. The ECMAScript library of built-ins was expanded to support additional data abstractions including maps, sets, and arrays of binary numeric values as well as additional support for Unicode supplementary characters in strings and regular expressions. The built-ins were also made extensible via subclassing. The sixth edition provides the foundation for regular, incremental language and library enhancements. The sixth edition was adopted by the General Assembly of June 2015.

ECMAScript 2016 was the first ECMAScript edition released under Ecma TC39's new yearly release cadence and open development process. A plain-text source document was built from the ECMAScript 2015 source document to serve as the base for further development entirely on GitHub. Over the year of this standard's development, hundreds of pull requests and issues were filed representing thousands of bug fixes, editorial fixes and other improvements. Additionally, numerous software tools were developed to aid in this effort including Ecmarkup, Ecmarkdown, and Grammarkdown. ES2016 also included support for a new exponentiation operator and adds a new method to called .Array.prototypeincludes

ECMAScript 2017 introduced Async Functions, Shared Memory, and Atomics along with smaller language and library enhancements, bug fixes, and editorial updates. Async functions improve the asynchronous programming experience by providing syntax for promise-returning functions. Shared Memory and Atomics introduce a new memory model that allows multi-agent programs to communicate using atomic operations that ensure a well-defined execution order even on parallel CPUs. It also included new static methods on Object: , , and .Object.valuesObject.entriesObject.getOwnPropertyDescriptors

ECMAScript 2018 introduced support for asynchronous iteration via the AsyncIterator protocol and async generators. It also included four new regular expression features: the flag, named capture groups, Unicode property escapes, and look-behind assertions. Lastly it included object rest and spread properties.dotAll

ECMAScript 2019 introduced a few new built-in functions: and on for flattening arrays, for directly turning the return value of into a new Object, and and on as better-named alternatives to the widely implemented but non-standard and built-ins. In addition, it included a few minor updates to syntax and semantics. Updated syntax included optional catch binding parameters and allowing U+2028 (LINE SEPARATOR) and U+2029 (PARAGRAPH SEPARATOR) in string literals to align with JSON. Other updates included requiring that be a stable sort, requiring that return well-formed UTF-8 regardless of input, and clarifying by requiring that it either return the corresponding original source text or a standard placeholder.flatflatMapArray.prototypeObject.fromEntriesObject.entriestrimStarttrimEndString.prototypeString.prototype.trimLefttrimRightArray.prototype.sortJSON.stringifyFunction.prototype.toString

ECMAScript 2020, the 11th edition, introduced the method for Strings, to produce an iterator for all match objects generated by a global regular expression; , a syntax to asynchronously import Modules with a dynamic specifier; , a new number primitive for working with arbitrary precision integers; , a new Promise combinator that does not short-circuit; , a universal way to access the global value; dedicated syntax for use within modules; increased standardization of enumeration order; , a host-populated object available in Modules that may contain contextual information about the Module; as well as adding two new syntax features to improve working with “nullish” values (undefined or null): nullish coalescing, a value selection operator; and optional chaining, a property access and function invocation operator that short-circuits if the value to access/invoke is nullish.matchAllimport()BigIntPromise.allSettledglobalThisthisexport \* as ns from 'module'for-inimport.meta

ECMAScript 2021, the 12th edition, introduced the method for Strings; , a Promise combinator that short-circuits when an input value is fulfilled; , a new Error type to represent multiple errors at once; logical assignment operators (, , ); , for referring to a target object without preserving it from garbage collection, and , to manage registration and unregistration of cleanup operations performed when target objects are garbage collected; separators for numeric literals (); and was made more precise, reducing the amount of cases that result in an implementation-defined sort order.replaceAllPromise.anyAggregateError??=&&=||=WeakRefFinalizationRegistry1_000Array.prototype.sort

ECMAScript 2022, the 13th edition, introduced top-level , allowing the keyword to be used at the top level of modules; new class elements: public and private instance fields, public and private static fields, private instance methods and accessors, and private static methods and accessors; static blocks inside classes, to perform per-class evaluation initialization; the syntax, to test for presence of private fields on objects; regular expression match indices via the flag, which provides start and end indices for matched substrings; the property on objects, which can be used to record a causation chain in errors; the method for Strings, Arrays, and TypedArrays, which allows relative indexing; and , a convenient alternative to .await#x in obj/dcauseErroratObject.hasOwnObject.prototype.hasOwnProperty

ECMAScript 2023, the 14th edition, introduced the , , , , and methods on and , as well as the method on ; added support for comments at the beginning of files to better facilitate executable ECMAScript files; and allowed the use of most Symbols as keys in weak collections.toSortedtoReversedwithfindLastfindLastIndexArray.prototypeTypedArray.prototypetoSplicedArray.prototype#!
